[Music]
starting out life in the arcades way
back in 1986
outrun has become synonymous with the
term arcade racer and has managed to
influence nearly every racing game in
some way since
outrun 2006 coast to coast is
essentially a reimagining of the first
title in the series and brings with it
many changes the first obviously being
the visuals that to this day still
impress
it truly is comparable to the home
console release with the power of the
psp really coming into its own to
produce impressive environments as well
as the several vehicles that make the
cut
now the entire experience is sectioned
into different modes
including a pretty robust campaign that
will see you racing rivals and trying to
thrill your passenger as much as
possible with your skills
at the beginning not that much is
available to the player but basic cars
and challenges in which to take on but
through the use of something known as
outrun miles which can be earned by
participating in the several modes on
offer it's possible to unlock more cars
challenges tracks and even background
music which help pad out the experience
and make it all the more enjoyable to
play on the go if you're a fan of arcade
races outrun 2006 coast to coast
is bound to put a smile on your face it
well and truly deserves a spot
in your collection as well
[Music]
the first thing to know going into grip
shift is that it's not a simple racer it
brings together aspects from both
platforming and puzzle games as well to
create something entirely unique that it
can call its own the game is broken up
into a set of challenges
races and minigames with the challenges
providing the bulk of the gameplay each
one usually consists of around three
objectives in which to complete
such as beating a set time collecting
stars or finding hidden items
as you progress each track gets
increasingly more difficult in which to
navigate once you're done with the main
modes there are a ton of minigames you
can get stuck into
which soon become one of the finest
aspects of the experience but the real
star of the show
has to be the intricate and
well-thought-out track editor that
essentially gives you a never-ending
amount of content to consume
all in all grip shift is one hell of a
game that should be part of
any psp owner's collection
sailor rally revo is a port of the
playstation 3 and 360 versions of the
same name it manages to retain most
aspects of the home console versions and
presents a rally experience with a
distinct arcade flavor because of this
there is not much of an emphasis upon
realism and this shows when making your
way around the track
each car does manage to feel unique but
only in raw speed the handling of every
machine
tends to steer towards a more accessible
and satisfying nature that will see you
throwing them sideways into corners
without much regard
now there are several modes available
from time trial to quick race but
championship has to be the main
attraction and serves is the way in
which to unlock more
cars and tracks and provides a
compelling and rewarding aspect to the
otherwise simple arcade makeup
adding to this is the generous
multiplayer mode that only requires one
copy of the game and what you have is
one of the most enjoyable races on the
system
it's just a shame that not many got
around to playing it
gran turismo on the psp is a bit of a
mixed bag at first glance it seems to be
the driving simulator that we've all
come to know and left but upon further
examination there are some glaring flaws
they don't at all completely break the
deal but if you're looking for a similar
experience to the full-blown console
versions you might walk away
disappointed let's get the good out of
the way first the visuals are top-notch
and really showcase what the psp is
capable of and just like the other
entries in the series the gameplay is
tight and responsive as you would expect
but what lets it down is the sheer lack
of content there is no extensive career
mode but instead
a series of challenges that make up the
bulk of the single player options this
alone is bound to turn some people away
as the main draw of the series
especially for me has always been the
well thought out and implemented career
mode which is just completely absent if
you can look past this fact though gran
turismo is still a great race around the
psp and although it won't be winning any
awards it's still one that deserves a go
[Music]
just like its console counterparts
midnight club 3 packs a serious punch on
the psp
but it doesn't come without any
disadvantages let's get the bad out of
the way and talk about the unforgivable
long load times if you're the type of
player that can look past it then you
are in for one of the finest
racing experiences on the handheld but
if you're rather impatient waiting for
the game to load up can be
an absolute chore but once you're in the
first thing that will strike you are the
incredible visuals an extreme amount of
work has been put into this aspect of
the game that it really does look like a
ps2 game in the palm of your hands
as with each game in the series a
generous amount of customization is
afforded to the player
allowing them to create and tailor their
vehicle to their specific style
each change offers a real noticeable
difference once out on the road which
makes experimenting with all the options
available all the more rewarding
as i mentioned earlier if you can look
past some of the game's shortcomings
there is no doubt that this is one of
the finest races available on the
handheld
[Music]
split second is a rather unique driving
game that sees players taking part in a
fictional reality tv show with each
fighting for money and victory
what makes it stand out when compared to
other races is the way in which you can
alter the track you are racing on for
the use of a special meter known as the
power play
by performing well on the tracks such as
drafting opponents and driving or
performing stunts the meter slowly
builds and once activated several
obstacles are created on the track
from falling debris to new shortcuts for
you to take it manages to add something
refreshed to the usual gameplay
found within the genre and lens split
second and identity you can confidently
call its own now there are many subtle
differences
with the psp vision aside from the
downgraded visuals there are several
positive additions such as more tracks
and gameplay modes that make
it the best version in my opinion so if
you're looking for some fast paced
racing on the system and have exhausted
the other options
split second is well worth a purchase
starting out life on the ps1 the wipeout
series went on to become one of sony's
flagship titles which meant a handheld
version was inevitable for the psp
it takes everything from the series
which had been learned up until that
point and presents a futuristic take on
the racing genre with a huge emphasis
upon speed and the use of weapons
like previous entries you can expect to
find a well thought out and robust
campaign mode that slowly deals out
extra cars and circuits for you to use
throughout the game
once on the track wipeout pulse truly
comes into its own and excels during its
second to second gameplay
littered around each track are boost
zones and items that can help turn the
outcome of even the most challenging
race but your opponents naturally have
access to these abilities as well which
manages to lend a layer of strategy to
each race from missiles to deflection
shields and lasers there are many
options when it comes to either going on
the offensive or playing it safe and
holding your position when in front
if you've ever been fond of the series
and were hoping to play it on the go
wipeout pure is a great way to do
exactly that
as many well know i'm a huge fan of the
ridge racer franchise
it was the first game i played upon
receiving a ps1 and i instantly fell in
love with its accessible and enjoyable
gameplay the psp vision literally feels
like the culmination of the entire
series
every track song and nearly every car
that has ever appeared throughout the
franchise can be earned and unlocked
throughout the extensive and rewarding
world tour mode which is the real
highlight of the overall experience
several other modes are included as well
such as a standard time attack option
and a multiplayer mode for up to eight
players where a lot of the replay value
lies
although not the most realistic race
around the handheld by any means
ridge racer 2 is perfect for those quick
pick up and play moments due to the
arcade nature of its gameplay and once
you've mastered it it is simply sublime
if you're a fan of the genre and they're
looking for something to easily pass the
time
with ridge racer 2 would be a perfect
addition to your library
[Music]
motor storm arctic edge was the first
time the series ventured onto a handheld
and just like its console counterparts
it is an extremely addictive and well
executed racer that any fan of the genre
will instantly enjoy
it shares much in common with the likes
of burnout but takes each race off road
through a variety of courses from dusty
mountains to snow-filled peaks and
centers around the use of a boost
mechanic which can be earned by driving
fearlessly now the game is split up into
a range of modes with the festival or
career being at the core of the
experience
each race you take part in awards to
play a point which can be used to unlock
more tracks customization options and
new vehicles
there are eight types of machines to get
used to such as motorcycles trucks and
tractors that all manage to feel unique
and offer their own advantages depending
on the course you find yourself on
overall motor storm out of edge brings
with it impressive graphics
a great soundtrack compelling gameplay
and lots of options making it an
essential purchase on the psp for anyone
who is fond of the genre
[Music]
the burnout franchise is one that has
consistently grabbed my attention
mainly due to its entirely unique take
on the racing genre as a whole
it's not just simply about racing
although it obviously does play a huge
part of the overall game it is much more
focused upon driving recklessly and
destruction burnout legends on the psp
is no different that same emphasis upon
action resonates throughout the entire
game now as you would expect there are
several modes to take part in such as
tournaments and something called pursuit
races with the latter providing some of
the more memorable moments from the
experience it sees you taking control of
a cop car and taking out street races by
slamming them off the roads in what is
known as a takedown these takedowns soon
become an integral mechanic to each and
every type of race you'll find yourself
competing in and by taking out enemies
and performing
risky maneuvers such as heading into one
coming traffic or near misses you will
slowly build a meter that eventually
grants you a boost
obtaining the highest speed possible is
the name of the game and in turn grants
you more points whilst performing these
actions whilst boosting there is truly
nothing like burnout and the psp version
offers one of the best ways to
experience it mainly for those looking
for something addictive and fun to play
on the go that does it for today's video
don't forget to hit subscribe and hit
that notification bell as always thanks
for watching and i will see you next
time
[Music]
so
you